Welcome to the next part of my course on the serverless framework.
My name is Fernando Medina Corey, and in this module,
we'll be looking at scaffolding and deploying serverless CRUD APIs.
We'll start looking at how we can deploy serverless CRUD APIs on AWS.
We'll see how we can configure the API Gateway endpoints for CRUD operations.
We'll also look at serverless databases, in this case, DynamoDB.
In order to work with Dynamo,
we'll also need to look at how to integrate database
resources using the serverless framework.
After that, we'll review and build a serverless pet database.
And finally, we'll test and debug our database.
We'll learn particular tools and strategies frequently needed
when debugging serverless applications.
All serverless framework CRUD operations on AWS
usually happen with the same workflow.
First, HTTP requests are made by a browser or another HTTP client.
Those requests are sent to the AWS API Gateway,
where the request data is processed and directed to a specific lambda function,
depending on the API Gateway endpoint requested.
Each potential CRUD operation will have its own function.
If the API Gateway receives a request to a create endpoint,
it will route that information to the create function.
Alternatively, if API Gateway receives a request to delete some value,
it will route that to the delete function.
Each of these functions will process the JSON payloads that come in
via the API Gateway in order to validate them and take the appropriate
actions on the backing DynamoDB database.
Because we're going to be relying on DynamoDB heavily for our CRUD database,
let's take a closer look at what it is and how it works.
Amazon describes DynamoDB as a fully managed NoSQL
database service that provides fast and predictable
performance with seamless scalability.
So how do we use Dynamo in our applications?
DynamoDB shares several things in common with other data
stores you might be familiar with.
Similar to other databases, DynamoDB stores data in tables.
Each of these tables contains multiple items,
and in each of these items, you have one or more attributes.
Attributes are the fundamental data element in DynamoDB and are in many ways
similar to fields or columns in other database systems.
The main distinction is that as long as items in this same table have
a different value for their primary key attribute,
they don't need to have any other attributes in common.
In this way, DynamoDB is schema-less.
Now, the attributes nor their data types need to be defined beforehand,
and each item can have its own distinct attributes.
All items in DynamoDB must have distinct primary keys,
but each table can have these keys made in one of two ways.
The table can use a simple primary key,
which uses only a single attribute such as an id as a partition key.
In this case, no two items can have the same partition key or value.
Or,
the primary key can be a composite primary key made up
of a partition key and a sort key.
In this case, you could have multiple items with the same partition key,
as long as they all had different sort keys.
An example of this might be if you had a table of pet ids and a sort
key of all the dates that they attended daycare.
That way you could query for all the entries for a single pet id,
or for a range of dates a specific pet was in attendance.
DynamoDB has a few features that are particularly
useful for serverless applications.
The first is auto scaling.
DynamoDB allows you to configure your table to automatically scale up
your capacity as needed within a particular range,
in this way meeting your demand.
It will also automatically scale down up to four times per day.
Dynamo also allows you to closely monitor the throughput of your applications.
With its read and write capacity units,
you can specify exactly the thresholds of traffic you'd like to
be able to accommodate and pay accordingly.
Additionally,
if you're able to consistently predict your need for
Dynamo at higher levels of use, you can also take advantage of reserved capacity.
Reserved capacity allows you to pay up front for capacity that you
know you'll use at a drastically reduced price.
So if your workloads are consistent enough,
you can get some serious savings from this feature.
Finally, according to AWS, DynamoDB can also be HIPPA compliant,
which makes it useable on a broader spectrum of applications.
It's always good practice to review the details from AWS directly to
determine how best to meet the legal requirements like this.
But before you think I'm pushing DynamoDB on you regardless of your use case,
here's a few things to keep in mind when designing future applications.
First, NoSQL isn't relational.
DynamoDB requires you to design tables to be queried
with a partition and sort key only.
Scanning through the entire table is a very costly operation that
becomes cost prohibitive as the table size grows.
So if you're used to relational databases like MySQL,
keep in mind that this is a different animal entirely.
So when designing your tables, keep in mind that design decisions matter.
When designing your application or your table,
you're stuck with the primary keys you create.
You don't have options to change and optimize your table design going
forward without completely recreating the DynamoDB table.
So keep in mind that the table design is somewhat rigid,
and be sure to optimize your tables up front whenever possible.
Additionally, because the way DynamoDB partitions keys,
you have to be careful to pick uniform partition keys.
DynamoDB spreads your read and write capacity over
automatically created partitions as it scales.
So for example,
if some primary key value is queried at a much higher frequency than others,
the performance of the partition that that value is located in might suffer
because it's shared with other values in that partition,
and it can't borrow capacity from other partitions without
increasing the overall limits on the entire table.
Essentially what this means is that as you grow,
hot keys become an issue at scale.
So be aware of this when creating your own applications.
Let's quickly look at how much DynamoDB costs.
DynamoDB has a fairly straightforward pricing model.
The first part of the charges is for write capacity.
Write capacity for DynamoDB is charged about $0.
47 per write capacity unit per month.
This is roughly equivalent to 1 write per second, or 2.
5 million writes per month of items that average about 1 KB in size.
You also get 25 free write capacity units per month
with your AWS free tier account.
The next charge is for reads from your Dynamo table.
These are charged at about $0.
09 per capacity unit per month, which can actually amount to as many as 5.
2 million reads per month of items, averaging about 4 KB in size.
25 read capacity units are also included within your account for AWS free tier.
The last main charge for Dynamo is in relation to the amount of storage used.
You pay $0.
25 per gigabyte per month on the total amount of data stored in Dynamo.
You also get 25 GB per month for free included within the AWS free tier.
There's one quick side note that needs to be made about
the read types that DynamoDB offers.
The first type of read is eventually consistent.
Eventually consistent reads may miss writes that were made
recently on the table you're reading from.
They maximize throughput and can happen twice per second on items
less than 4 KB for each read capacity unit.
These are the default type of read,
and because you get more reads per second for the same capacity,
they're cheaper overall.
Now,
strongly consistent reads on the other hand are guaranteed to
reflect the most recent writes to a table.
Because of this,
they require twice the read capacity of regular reads
and are effectively more costly.
Another Dynamo feature you may want to use is DynamoDB streams.
This feature allows you to take action on changes that occur on a Dynamo table.
Pretend you have a stream of incoming requests to Dynamo.
You can use the streams feature to identify changes on this table and
trigger a lambda function to review that change.
The function can then process the change and
determine if it should take an action.
For example, in the case of an additional new entry to a users table,
we might trigger a lambda function to send an email
notification to the new user.
Here's a few key takeaways for DynamoDB while you work
with it on your own applications.
The free tier is very generous.
You can build applications that can handle about 200
million requests per month and use up to 25 GB of storage
without needing to pay AWS a penny.
Don't be afraid to play around a little bit with this to get the hang of it.
Keep in mind that your reads aren't strongly consistent by default.
So if you have a highly sensitive application that
needs strong consistency for its reads, be sure to use it where appropriate.
Design all your tables thinking about potential issues down the line.
Could you have some primary keys reference significantly more than others?
Should you be using a sort key?
Additionally, if you do need to take action on changes to a database,
make sure you think about using DynamoDB streams.
Now let's take a look at the configuration details of setting up a
DynamoDB resource within the serverless framework.
The configuration for a serverless CRUD API would have a few
additional components when compared to other services.
First,
it requires an additional section in the configuration called iamRoleStatements.
Within that, we add an IAM, or Identity and Access Management policy,
that can be used by the service to access DynamoDB.
In this specific instance, we're allowing it to access our DynamoDB pet table.
This is a slight oversimplification,
but we'll take a look at some actual code just a
little bit later in this module.
We'll also need to create a resources section that
names each of the resources used.
In this case, we defined a resource called pet table.
We describe it as a DynamoDB table that has the DeletionPolicy of Retain.
Now this means that when we deploy, remove,
and modify our service, the table data will not be deleted.
This is usually a good idea when working with
services that rely on data persistence,
because it allows us to avoid destroying all of our information by accident.
The latter half of the resources configuration defines
some properties of the DynamoDB table.
Specifically, it creates attribute definitions for the table,
and it defines an attribute ID, which is a string.
It also specifies the id attribute will be used as the schema key,
and uses the HASH KeyType.
This means that the id value is the partition key for the table,
and the table is using a simple primary key.
We could also add another defined attribute using a range KeyType,
which would make this a composite primary key,
but we'll skip that in this application.
The configuration also sets the provisioned read and
write capacity of the table to 1, which is conveniently within the AWS free tier.
Finally, it sets the name of the DynamoDB table within AWS,
which matches the name of the table in the IAMRoleStatement.
Now let's quickly refresh our memories about the demo
we'll be building out in this module, and then we'll implement the sort of service ourselves.